Six months of being an Omahan ( #bigomaha )
May 6, 2009



So this week marks six months of living in Omaha.
I can't help but look back to a simple blog post I made on August 1st, 2008.  I wrote  "Do I want to move to Omaha?  Not really."  Now flash forward to May 2009 where my journey in Omaha has so little to do with the reason I came here in the first place.
It's mostly about the people for me.  From the second I stepped foot on Omaha's soil it's been a non-stop experience of meeting the greatest people ever.

I land in October, to visit.  I immediately get a text message from Jess, "Welcome to Omaha."  From that moment I never felt more welcome somewhere.
A couple days later Jillian helps me find a place to live in Dundee.

Boutcher introduces me to everyone at the office and invites me to a party thrown by Phil.
I meet Kat for coffee and I'm glad to know someone who wants to talk geekery with me.  She introduces me to drag queens.
I meet Cassie who shows me how the city likes to have fun and in turn I get to show her how Chicago does when we visit my friends there.
At my first Tweetup I introduce myself to the infamous KT, who has since become a very close friend and a source of inspiration both socially and professionally.

Andrea becomes my partner in crime any time either of us want to go out, or there's a show.
I meet Dusty and Jeff who show me that I can be a part of something in Omaha that would never be possible in Chicago.
Becoming friends with Christin makes me realize that I can share things and be important to someone else's life just like so many have become important to mine.
I learn when I go out with Terah, Bree, and Valerie there's going to be some awesome tunes played on the jukebox.  We'll sing "Tom Sawyer" multiple times.
I become a real part of a neighborhood.  Knowing if I go to "my bar", The 49r, I'll see people I recognize.

Krin sucks because she moved to Chicago.  Wish she could have stuck around longer.
In no other world would Schaft, otherwise just "the bartender",  be a friend of mine outside of a pint of Boulevard.
I can walk to "my coffee shop" and see that Megan is just down the street.  I can go say hi and share some ice cream and conversation.

Brian shows me how fun and awkward it could be for a few guys who have no clue what they're doing to  throw themselves into the public promotions game.

Dave and Matt help me debug issues with my web site on IRC.  The difference here is I know I'll see them in a couple days and I'll buy them a beer to thank them.
BigOmaha

There's so many other people, places, and experiences that I'm missing.  But this isn't meant to be some kind of all encompassing list of everyone that I know.  Just a snapshot of some really important people that have made the six months probably the best six months of my life.
Thanks, Omaha.


