Ten year class reunion
Sep 27, 2009



Wow, ten years since I graduated high school.  Many probably will say "it seems like only yesterday" but to me it seems much, much longer.  In fact, to be honest, I hardly remember those four years at all.  Sure some special moments stand out that included performances or things with friends, but on the whole... really, nothing.
I wasn't planning on going to the reunion.  It wasn't until my friend Becky from high school asked me to go did I cave and signed up and booked a flight.  I figured the people I wanted to talk to I already have on Facebook, and the rest I don't remember anyway.
I kind of feel bad.  I hear my friends on Facebook mention names and I have zero recollection to who they may be.  I suppose I could dig through a year book or something before I head back to Illinois and try to recount people I may run into, but I don't care that much.  I have a group of about five people I'm really looking forward to seeing.  The rest I guess never mattered enough for me to remember that they existed.
We're (more or less) going to stick together as a group and travel via Becky's mom's car who only has a tape deck.  I volunteered to put together a sweet mix tape that would jive with our four years we were there.  And here it is:

Third Eye Blind - Semi Charmed Life
Bush - Swallowed
Oasis - Wonderwall
The Smashing Pumpkins - Tonight, Tonight
Hanson - MMMBop
Goo Goo Dolls - Black Balloon
Merrill Bainbridge - Mouth
Meredith Brooks - Bitch
Sarah McLachlan - Building a Mystery
Jewel - Foolish Games
Natalie Imbruglia - Torn
Cake - I Will Survive
Savage Garden - I Want You
Spice Girls - Say You'll Be There
Fool's Garden - Lemon Tree
Beck - Where It's At
Beastie Boy s- Intergalactic
Bloodhound Gang - The Bad Touch
Santana and Rob Thomas - Smooth
No Doubt - Sunday Morning
Chumbawamba - Tubthumping


So here's to Grant Community High School class of 1999.  Go Bulldogs.  Here's where I'll be going, and for your entertainment some photos.
View Larger Map
[gallery link="file"]


