25 things about me
Jan 28, 2009



This note-writing meme has been going full force on Facebook lately.  I thought I'd cave and do it.  Since I did, I'll put it here as well.
Rules:
Once you've been tagged, you are supposed to write a note with 25 random things, facts, habits, or goals about you. At the end, choose 25 people to be tagged. You have to tag the person who tagged you. If I tagged you, it's because I want to know more about you.
(To do this, go to "notes" under tabs on your profile page, paste these instructions in the body of the note, type your 25 random things, tag 25 people (in the right hand corner of the app) then click publish.)
1.  As a young boy I shot a squirrel for no reason.  I still feel bad about it.
2.  I'm an activist for marriage reform.  Something with such a high failure rate obviously has a flaw.
3.  A web app I once built was in PC World magazine as one of the "best of the web".  I was so proud.
4.  I get upset when I have to use Windows at work.  It's like being tasked to cook a whole meal with only a lighter.
5.  I love coffee.
6.  People see me as young in Chicago, and old in Omaha.  Therefore I feel young in Chicago, and old in Omaha.
7. Growing up I would perform at least two theatre shows a year, mostly musicals. I started at age seven with Fiddler on the Roof.
8.  My favorite number is 8.
9.  I respect people for their music taste more than I should.
10. I'm an atheist, but I used to teach Sunday school in a Lutheran church.
11. I started an IRC (Internet Relay Chat) channel that's been running for almost 15 years with many of the same people.
12. I wish I could get into reading.  There's so much good content that I don't give myself access to.
13. I would love to be a professional musician in some fashion.  But I know I'd never be good enough.
14. I haven't had meat in almost two months.  I don't miss the food, I miss the convenience.
15. Before I turned 18 I did a lot of not so legal things online. It allowed me to learn programming languages, operating systems and network topology in a way school never could.
16. In high school I had a band that changed the lyrics of a song from "Tell me about the time you fucked your mother in your living room" to get a gig at a christian coffee house. We still never played there.
17. I never saw someone use chewing tobacco until I met someone from Omaha.
18. I once hosted a top ranked Podcast.  But I altered the rating system to rank us that way.
19. I miss drumming.
20. I once wanted to be a hobo. Given the options I thought it would be the most freeing and the best opportunity to start fresh.
21. Being in a drum corps was some of the most fun I ever had.  Until I started to care more about winning.
22. I swore off celebrating Christmas with my family after this past holiday.
23. Without Twitter (and a couple other sites) i'd have no friends in Omaha.  I'm so thankful for the sites and the friends.
24. I'm listening to The Cars - "Just what I needed" right now.
25. I told myself I wouldn't do this, but after enough people tagged me, and reading Katie's, I figured I owed it to them. There's a lot my new friends don't know about me. This is like a cheat sheet.


