Introducing Longtail Music
Apr 28, 2017




  
    

    
      It's no secret I've been frustrated with music discovery for a
      while.  Ever since
      Rdio shut down I've
      listened to less music on mainstream services.  While I do have a
      Spotify account, I tend to only use it to listen to old playlists and comfort music.
    
    
      Where music discovery has been successful for me, however, is with
      internet radio.  Having a person with deep knowledge within a certain
      style hand-picking tracks for me every day has proven time and time again
      that it's a system that works.
    
    
      I built
      The Bat Player as the
      best way to listen to your favorite internet radio stations on your
      television. It's a client for power-users where you can add any station.
       But I wanted to facilitate an experience for a wider audience that
      wouldn’t already have stations lined up to listen to.
    
    
      There’s no lack of internet radio directories.  Many boast “thousands of
      stations” with no context or assistance for a perspective listener.  If
      you’re lucky you’ll be linked to a web site for a station to learn more,
      many looking like they haven’t been touched since 1998.  There had to be a
      better way.  So I built
      Longtail Music.
    
    
      I focused on a specific set of stations that met a standard of quality and
      ultimately resulted in me directly reaching out and inviting them on
      board.  My goal was to create a “loosely connected network of independent
      stations”.  The content on these stations is really great and I’m honored
      to have met all of the station owners who care deeply about their slice of
      music online.
    
    
      With stations in place the first hurdle for a potential listener is
      determining what station to listen to. Longtail’s feed helps here.  Feeds
      are how people consume content every day with bite-sized chunks scrolling
      by on every network.  Browsing the feed gives you easily digestible
      snapshots of what is taking place allowing the style, personality and
      content of stations to come out.  What they’re playing, events being
      scheduled and reactions from listeners are all analogous to what is seen
      every day on Facebook and should feel like home.
    
    
      Instead of simply stating a certain genre is played, the actual content of
      the station is featured.  It’s the difference between that person you met
      who says “Yeah, I love music. It’s cool!” and the one who says “I only
      listen to
      early Ministry
      and
      Peter Green’s Fleetwood Mac”. You'll know what you’re going to enjoy if you get the specifics
      upfront.
    
    
      We live in a predominately single-dominated world. But listening to that
      one song and forgetting about it isn’t how you discover new music. Instead
      you hear a new song, track it down so it can be listened to obsessively,
      and then dig through the artist’s catalog to see what other stuff you’ve
      missed out on. I want to facilitate that workflow.  That’s why every song
      is only a click away from being played on Spotify, the largest on-demand
      music service. So visit the list of songs you’ve “Liked” and add them to
      your playlists, dig through the back catalog, and listen on-demand again
      and again. Each song is a gateway to an entire artist, entire genre, or
      entire world of music you may not even have known about.
    

    
    Click on tracks to navigate to them in Spotify, Deezer, Apple Music and
    more.

    
      I hope I’ve made it clear so far that music is not a zero sum game.  There
      is room to have both the Spotify Discover Weekly playlist algorithm and
      personal curators shoveling a steady flow of musical coal into your audio
      consumption furnace. Because of this interoperability is a thing I’d like
      to continue to focus on.  That’s why on Longtail you can do things like
      use your Facebook or Spotify account to get a list of suggested stations.
    
    
      I wanted what I call a “thin social layer”.  Real-time, live, internet
      radio is a shared experience and that aspect should be emphasized.
       Knowing others are turning in and listening with you is a cool feeling.
       “Liking” a track isn’t just a meaningless gesture to keep track of songs
      for yourself, it tells fellow listeners what you think, potential
      listeners the content that is drawing attention, and is even a datapoint
      for the DJ to know the feelings of the listeners.
    

    
    Longtail Music's full screen player.  See in real-time other people tuning
    in or reacting to tracks.

    
      And lastly, I'm not just doing this for the listeners.  Internet radio
      stations have been hiding in the shadows as long as I can remember, doing
      its best to keep the lights on, keeping up with licensing payments,
      hosting fees and more.  I wanted a convenient, centralized way to collect
      donations from listeners.  So if a station enables it you can help keep
      the tunes flowing by "Tipping" them and I'll make sure it gets to them.
    
    
      It’s early days with Longtail Music, but I’d like to thank everyone who’ve
      supported the idea so far, including all the stations who have given
      feedback, suggestions, and encouragement.
    

    
    Thanks to Jay Demetillo , who came up with the overall look and feel of the
    site.  He was a huge help in giving structure and style to everything.  This
    is him and I at Covo working on Longtail.

    
      Give Longtail Music a
      shot.  Maybe you'll find something you'll be really into.  Need a
      suggestion?  How about
      Lowercase Sounds.  Today is their 12th anniversary of streaming their brand of house
      music online.  If you missed out on the past 12 years make sure you don't
      miss out on all the fantastic music being shared online by people like
      Très and his crew in the future.
    
    Let me know what you think.
  


